hey everybody welcome back glad you're
still sticking with the program Lazlo
Montgomery here once again with a nice
tasty chung you for you a special one
today
it's special because the story that
yielded this particular Chinese saying
is in my worthless estimation one of the
most famous stories in all of Chinese
history wow that's quite a claim no
shortage of well-known stories from the
past few thousand years but this one
it's big in fact the source from which
this Chung you sprang forth is none
other than the sure G itself the records
of the grand historian the part on Xiang
Yu the Xiang Yu Bunji this story of the
Chu Han contention is all rehash from
China history podcast episodes 18 on the
Han Dynasty part 1 in episode 91
covering the life of Xiang Yu the main
characters from both those episodes play
a starring role in today's dramatic
story behind this Chinese saying today
we look at zoom in too good four
syllables standard quittin of course for
most all these Chung you or Chinese
idioms or sayings and without further
delay let's analyze this one zoom in
true good soup is the number for men
means your face or to face someone or
something but in this Chung you it means
a side of something so sue me n means
four sides truth means the true state or
that true Kingdom one of the most
powerful warring States during the
Eastern Jo and again after the fall of
the chin they were spread out all over
Hunan whole bay and the eastern part of
China from Jiujiang up to the southern
border of Shandong and good means a song
to good songs from true or true folk
songs now you combine Sumi and chuga all
together and you get four sides true
songs uh what can that mean well this is
one of those Chung you where the four
characters don't give away the hidden
meaning you don't know the backstory
forget it you're stabbing in the dark as
far as what far sides true songs means
so without wasting any more of your
precious time with my yapping let's get
right into it you'll remember chin sure
Quang right first emperor of China
builder of the Magnificent tomb that's
the top tourist attraction in Xi'an
today connected all the various walls
into the Great Wall and also a pretty
big tourist attraction not to diminish
his achievements or anything but he was
a cruel tyrant and imposed laws and
lifestyles on his subjects that were so
draconian and unpleasant that when he
died all these homegrown militias formed
and people rose up to get rid of the Qin
Dynasty you all recall from the rise and
fall of the Qin parts one and two CHP
episodes 157 158 the dynasty keeled over
and died not four years after the sudden
and unexpected death of its illustrious
founder now into this enormous power
vacuum step two giants of their day one
was Xiang Yu of Chu who I mentioned just
before when they were the only two left
standing
Xiang Yu and yo Fung agreed to divide
China in half and each would rule their
respective Kingdom and they leave each
other alone and this was around August
203 this was 11 years after Commodus was
killed in Rome to give you a relative
timestamp
they demarcated china east and west
along the home canal in the middle of
Hunan Chu led by Xiang Yu controlled
everything from there to the China coast
and as I said from the bottom of
Shandong to judge young province this
line separating Han from Chu all Chinese
Xiang Qi or chess players no is referred
to as true han chaeah chu river and Han
order the two opposing sides of the
chessboard red and black well each king
retired to their side of China and word
began to soon filter out that Xiang Yu
had softened up quite a bit and had
become complacent and these now peaceful
times two of the old banks most trusted
aides Chang Liang and Chen ping
suggested that Leo bong that all of
China was his if he got rid of Xiang Yu
and now is the time when sham you was
looking the other way so to speak
therefore plans were set in motion to
attack Xiang Yu at Punk Xiang which is
known today is Xu Zhuo the fourth
largest city in Chang su province and
Leo banks birthplace even though it was
now part of Chu the attack was carried
out and the final showdown took place in
northeast on way in the town of guy Xie
commanding Liu bangs army was his
greatest general Han Xin and the true
army was led by Xiang Yu Han Xin was a
brilliant strategist and led Xiang Yu
into a number of traps and after being
outmaneuvered and facing one case of bad
luck after another
Xiang Yu found himself cornered and
outwitted and the panic inside Xiang
Yu's camp was considerable in the morale
of the true soldiers was hitting rock
bottom food had run out and they were
left with no escape route it was gonna
be do or die with Xiang Yu and his army
left in a hopeless situation
han Xin sprung his final trap he gave an
order to all his soldiers as well as
captured true troops to sing a number of
famous songs from the land of Chu this
they did and the sound of all these
songs they all used to sing back home
and Chu made Xiang Yu's men feel
demoralized and pining for their
homeland and their families whatever
will to fight remained now had left them
Xiang Yu heard this singing too and he
wondered if
had already been conquered and he knew
now no one was going to come rescue them
so Shang you rose from his slumber
inside his tent had called for some wine
and his beloved wife consort you youichi
performed a sword dance for him and
saying to her beloved king and husband
one final song she sang the han army has
conquered our land surrounded with the
singing of Chu my lord spirits are low
why then should I live and with Xiang
Yu's own sword she killed herself so as
not to distract him from what now must
be done and that morning shown you with
his last 800 troops fought to the bitter
end all his men were lost or committed
suicide and Xiang Yu wounded and at
death's door
surrounded by Han troops ended his own
life he was only thirty years old so
what this all means when you use the
Cheung you zoom in to good you are
expressing being in a hopeless situation
beyond your control if all is totally
lost and there's no way out the forces
of nature and fate all lined up against
you you can say sylveon chuka it
expresses a sense of hopelessness
loneliness and being distressed beyond
anything you could control your besieged
and under attack from all sides pinned
down by your enemies zum Yin Xiu good
it's only used in case of emergency if
you're stuck on the 405 and you're late
for a meeting or your financial
portfolio took a bit of a hit that
you're not incidental good territory my
friend your world really has to be
caving in at least a little for you to
be able to say those magic words
zoom in Chu Zhang you went down in 202
BCE and Leo pang of course went on to
found the han dynasty that lasted all
the way till 280 C II and the bedrock of
traditional Chinese culture was formed
during this
Abell dynasty not to mention a few could
Chung you again if you want the longer
more drawn-out version of this story you
can always go listen to those episodes
on the Han Dynasty part one and the one
on Xiang Yu or you can just leave it at
this if you ever saw Chan Kai cos film
farewell to my concubine it's based on
this story of Xiang Yu and Yuji and the
Chu Han contention the chul hundred
Jeong playing out in the background so
zoom Yin Xiu good break glass in case of
emergency only the songs of chew on all
four sides that's all I got for you this
time another musical Cheung you for all
of you from me to you laszlo montgomery
signing off from sunny and beautiful la
the capital of SoCal don't forget china
history podcast the china vintage hour
and this exact same Chinese sayings
podcast all available at tea cup dot
media and can't they Pacific to one more
reason to fly them you could listen to
me for fifteen hours hey take care
everyone come back next time would you
you